It's rather tough, following two
such accomplished story tellers.
The story that I want to tell though
is one of elegant simplicity.
It was that, a title I
suggested to David Talbott
when I looked at the picture
that was emerging from
an understanding of gravity,
which I spoke about last year,
and as I worked on it I understood that
the universe really is much simpler
then anyone could
have considered.
But then, at the same time, there was
something that occurred in Canada,
a presentation which I
watched with dismay,
called the elegance or the
simplicity of everything.
I'll see if I can get this to..
it says the connection is lost..
Here we go.
So The Elegant Simplicity
of the Electric Universe.
How come so many clever
people can't see it?
Only in the last few months
that I've found out why.
It's an understanding that's
important for everyone,
including all of you here.
Today specialization is
the enemy of science.
It produces more complication
than simplification
because experts mislead
each other with things,
as Tom said: "they don't
know they don't know."
The result is a useless
reflection in a shattered mirror.
So, who am I to be speaking to you about
the elegant simplicity of the universe?
Looking back I can see how
I got into this position,
how I became a boundary
writer of science,
as the science editor of the Canberra
Times dubbed me some years ago.
From the earliest age I was
curious about how things worked,
or read books and investigated
things on my own.
Other kids did the same so I didn't
consider myself exceptionally clever.
Looking back, it seems the event
that separated me from my peers
was being inspired by an extraordinary
story of planetary chaos
by Immanuel Velikovsky and his
book "Worlds in Collision".
This happened while I
was in high school.
So, I began to question many of
the things I was being taught
and when I got to university I think
I was the only physics undergrad
who used to haunt the Anthropology
shelves at the library,
checking to see whether Velikovsky
had cherry-picked his sources
or whether he had made a
real case to be answered.
And I came to the conclusion that he had
made a very good case to be answered.
So what had Velikovsky done?
He'd thrown down a gauntlet
to astronomers that
they rejected by having his
best-selling book burned.
So, book burning didn't
finish centuries ago.
It happened last century.
Velikovsky's heresy
was to publish that
electromagnetism played a dominant
role in the solar system,
particularly during periods
of planetary chaos.
Many years later and shortly
before Velikovsky's passing,
I visited him at his home in
Princeton and discussed this issue
about the electrical
nature of gravity
because this was perhaps the
single most important thing
that the astronomers
threw at him.
That his mechanism
disobeyed Newton's laws.
Once again this is the certainty
that there's only this law,
there's no "what if?" There is some
other aspect to the mechanism?
So, it has taken me all of the intervening
years since then, there's quite a few,
to overcome the education
I received as a student,
to find the few true
pioneers of science
and to relate this to
everyday experience.
I firmly believe that the
Electric Universe is simple
and you could begin to teach
it in primary school.
It's an amazing and engrossing
story which fires the imagination
and the explanations relate
to everyday experience.
The Electric Universe is a cultural,
as well as a scientific, revolution
that has been
millennia in coming.
It allows us to understand,
for the first time,
the obsessive fear of
the planetary gods
and their doomsday weapon,
the mighty Thunderbolt.
The phenomenal thunderbolt of the planetary
gods is the link between our human story
and the science of the
electric universe.
Some of the renowned scientists of the
past like Newton and Faraday,
predicted that electricity is the
secret to understanding gravity
and therefore the universe.
But in the early 20th century,
following the madness of World War,
we reverted to the ancient geometric
religious mysticism of Pythagoras and Plato.
In fact mathematicians were
formerly called geometers.
And wartime established a fire hose of government
funding of science that hasn't ceased.
It has had the
unintended consequences
of paralyzing progress within
huge bureaucratic institutions
and fostering censorship in the
form of anonymous peer review
which stalls even
minor advances.
Paradigm shifts come from individuals and
are resisted vigorously by authorities.
The wartime command to large groups of
scientists to shut up and calculate
has become, with the advent of
computers, shut up and simulate!
Simulations' pretty pictures are routinely
used to persuade non-expert audiences.
Science is now in show business
producing CGI virtual reality
entertainment on big screens.
But computer models can only
reflect back what you put in.
As a scientist, one must attend
to what lies beyond any model.
Here is M74, a perfect example
of elegant simplicity.
It's called the perfect
spiral galaxy.
Cosmologists can't explain
its formation or rotation
without inventing weird stuff like
dark matter and a central black hole.
But adding arbitrary patches to a model
to make it work on a computer screen
is not simplifying and it's
certainly not elegant.
It's generally a sign that your model
is incomplete or just plain wrong.
You'll notice on the picture
the strings of red spots in M74.
They are star birth regions that
are brought out in this image.
I'll discuss this later because
they confirm the Electric Universe.
The definition of elegance for a scientific
theory or solution to a problem is
well-designed, pleasingly
ingenious and simple.
Symmetry and balance are
also often important.
But assessments of ingenuity
and simplicity are subjective,
like an individual's
response to modern art.
Paul Gauguin wrote:
"The history of modern art is also the history
of the progressive loss of art's audience.
Art has increasingly become the concern of the
artist and the bafflement of the public."
So where are the art
critics of modern science
when presented with a chalkboard
covered in mathematical symbols,
most of which are undefined
in any real sense?
Critics of this art
of branded deniers,
as if consensus constitutes
a religious truth.
Only a belief can be denied
and if it's a consensus
belief it ain't science
as Michael Crichton said in
one of these famous speeches.
The late astronomer Halton Arp lamented
that investigative journalism,
or in other words art
criticism, in science is dead.
The Big Bang is the antithesis
of elegance and simplicity
with its random explosions and collisions and
its multiplicity of forces and particles.
Despite this, he is an
authority who said publicly
that everything is not just
simple but astonishingly simple.
Neil Turok, director of the Perimeter Institute
for Theoretical Physics in Waterloo, Canada
speaking on October the
seventh last year..
The astonishing
simplicity of everything,
but that implies you
know everything.
But I will show you that there
are many very basic things
that experts don't
know they don't know.
Neil Turok defined simplicity:
"Simplicity means
concepts which unify.
They bring together disparate
ideas, disparate knowledge,
make sense of them
and simplify."
I agree.
But adding fudge factors like
dark matter and dark energy
is the antithesis of simplicity.
What other disparate
knowledge was canvassed?
Certainly not Halton Arp's
observational research
that shows the universe
is not expanding.
Certainly not peer-reviewed
plasma cosmology
that explains it simply and
predicts so much in cosmology.
Simple concepts are those that
explain as much as we possibly can
with the least possible
number of assumptions.
And I agree, that's a good test.
The problem is how little theoretical
physics actually explains.
Quantum physics has no explanation,
gravity has no explanation
and the two are incompatible.
Theoretical physics, as it
stands today, is very limited.
But as British astrophysicist
Mike Disney shows,
the number of free parameters (assumptions)
in the Big Bang exceeds the measurements.
So consensus Big Bang cosmology fails
this test at the starting gate.
A recent massive supercomputer simulation
produced the universe of galaxies
that seems to match
observations.
Despite using concepts
that are invalid.
So what good are
computer simulations?
With all the free parameters it could
have produced a platypus or koala bear.
Nevertheless, simulations are offered
as experiments and proof of theories.
After describing the
Big Bang, Turok said:
"The universe has turned out
to be stunningly simple.
It's simpler than any of
our models can explain."
But hang on a minute, if none of the
models can explain the simplicity,
surely all of the
models have failed.
Now, here's the astonishingly simple
equation of all known physics.
I would ask, where is life and
consciousness in that equation?
You'll notice that Peter Higgs gets a
mention, the second from the right.
Turok said: "They've
found the Higgs boson"!
No, they didn’t!
If the Higgs mechanism
explains masses
it should be able to calculate the mass
ratio of the proton to the electron.
It can't.
And who in this audience
thinks that's simple?
That it allows them to
understand everything.
But here we come to an
important qualifier.
"The grand unified theory is compact
and elegant in mathematical terms."
Turok then launches into numbers,
Pythagoras' theorem, imaginary numbers,
allowing the solution
of any equation
and an enthusiastic endorsement of
mathematics for the rest of the lecture.
But unless each symbol and
operator can be defined..
pardon me,
defined in real physical terms, an
equation is physically meaningless.
Mismatches with theory cause the invention
of ever more particles and forces.
Which violates the claim of
simplicity and elegance.
In fact, mathematics is an art often
applied unscientifically to science.
Unless you have all of the
correct physical concepts
and definitions in your
mathematical model,
the conclusions cannot
be relied upon.
The art becomes surreal.
The genius Johann Wolfgang
Von Goethe wrote:
"Mathematics has the completely false
reputation of yielding infallible conclusions."
So we come to art and surrealism
and the celebrity, Kip Thorne,
Feynman emeritus professor of
theoretical physics in Caltech
who has this to say
about simplicity:
"Simplicity is the touchstone
in finding new physical laws...
if it's elegant, then it's a rough rule
of thumb: you're on the right track."
Thorne was the executive producer
of the sci-fi film Interstellar.
The film blurb says: "His
math guided the creation of
the mesmerizing and the most
accurate simulation ever
of what a black hole
would look like.
And it was the product of the year of work
by 30 people and thousands of computers."
Kip Thorne said: "I think the thing
that makes this film different
is that the science is woven into this film
and into the story from the beginning.
And woven in deeply.
Real science."
Quite the reverse is true, cosmology has
become science fiction entertainment.
There's nothing scientific
about the slide on the right
from Thorne's Wolfgang Pauli
lecture in Zurich in 2011,
"A black hole is made from warped
space . . . and space and time."
But as Steve Crothers has
shown, black hole theory
makes no sense mathematically,
let alone physically.
How do you make a material object out of
two immaterial concepts, space and time?
As science teacher [Evan Camp]
Evan Camp's student asked: "How can
smart people believe this stuff?"
Recently I found the answer
and it shows that our education systems
damage our ability to do science.
The first thing to do, I think Tom touched
on this, is to first know yourself.
The distinguished
doctor Iain McGilchrist
is a psychiatrist, doctor, writer,
former Oxford literary scholar
who wrote: The Master
and his Emissary,
subtitled: The Divided Brain and
the Making of the Western World.
His shorter e-book is: The Divided
Brain and the Search for Meaning,
which I recommend to you.
There are also some
excellent Youtube videos,
interviews with him and
also an RSA animation
from which I will
have a few images.
He points out: The brain is profoundly divided
and this organ is profoundly asymmetric.
And he asked the question:
Why would nature divide brains if
there wasn't some use for that?
He said: It's not true
that one part of the brain
does reason and the other does emotion.
Both are profoundly involved.
It seems the main function
of the corpus callosum
that join, joining fibres between
the left and right hemispheres,
is to inhibit the
other hemisphere.
Something very important
is going on here.
The right hemisphere reacts faster
but inhibits less strongly.
I should point out too that
physically they are different.
One hemisphere is slightly
smaller than the other
and the left hemisphere
is slightly rotated
and the surface convolutions
are different..
And even the chemical signaling
is different on both sides
so they have a different
job to perform.
This is a slide from
the RSA academies,
the Royal Society of Arts
academies in the UK.
I presume you've probably
all seen the animated
swift drawing while
somebody is lecturing.
This is from the YouTube video that
I recommend you to have a look at.
In this he shows that the left hemisphere
is narrowly focused and attends to detail
while the right hemisphere
is more broadly focused,
it's alert and open to
what's going on around.
And he gives an example
of the chicken.
He said: the left hemisphere in the chicken
is looking for the seeds amongst the dirt,
the right hemisphere is making sure the
chicken doesn't become somebody else's lunch.
And I think that's a
good way to look at it.
In other words the left hemisphere is survival,
the right hemisphere is a broad picture
of what’s going on around you.
I wrote to Iain McGilchrist and I sent him
a copy of the paper, PDF of the paper
which had actually studied the left and
right hemisphere and image the activity
that goes on when you ask physics
questions, of a student.
And you'll notice that the left hemisphere
lights up like a Christmas tree
and the right hemisphere
is rather passive.
The different colors just referred to different
characteristics of what's being asked.
Algebraic equation representation
is red, the green is periodicity,
energy flow is blue.
This brings me to: we've all
heard of cognitive dissonance,
as if you're presented with something
that you just cannot handle,
it just doesn't make
any sense to you.
And it seems that it's a
result of the differences
between the two
hemispheres of the brain.
The left hemisphere, as I said, has narrow
focus, only sees what it expects to see
and has automatic
machine-like responses.
It's about survival.
Education in science reinforces the
bits rather than the whole picture.
So the left hemisphere is
involved in the training.
It's a vicious cycle because it
focuses on aspects we expect to see.
You get stuck in a
certain way of thinking.
Also the left hemisphere
needs to be in control.
And the left hemisphere people,
that's those who have dominant
left hemisphere, exhibit denial.
We can all think of many
examples of this, I think,
Michael Shermer's visit to our
last meeting as an example.
The right hemisphere: meaning comes
from understanding the whole.
In other words, it's trying
to take in the whole picture.
And being comfortable, and this is important,
with not being able to grasp everything.
You don't need to understand
the creation of the universe.
What's more, he said,
happiness comes from understanding your
connectedness and engagement with the world.
I would say the universe
because that's what the Electric
Universe is about, connectedness.
Left hemisphere, Big Bang cosmology is
consequently, I would say, hope-less.
McGilchrist's e-book is subtitled:
"Why are we so Unhappy?"
And this is an, this is the whole
thing about the Electric Universe,
there is no subject that it shouldn't
touch on if it is a real cosmology.
He says, happiness comes
from social connectedness
and a sense of purpose
beyond the immediate.
I would say that seems to
characterize our conferences.
There is a great
sense of purpose.
Modern goal-oriented
education, on the other hand,
and its constant audit
and inquisition,
turns off the intellectually
adventurous teachers and students.
We don't understand the world by
putting it together bit by bit.
Quite the opposite, in fact.
So, Left Hemisphere Training
The knowledge that is mediated by the left
hemisphere is within a closed system.
This is typical of the scientific
approach of course, you isolate
the small part of something and
then try and analyze that.
It has the advantage
of appearing perfect
but the perfection is bought
ultimately at the price of emptiness.
So you see, the Big Bang
is a closed system.
The universe expanded from a non-physical
point thirteen and a half billion years ago
and increasing entropy
and disorder is expected
but we see increasing order.
The universe is not
a closed system!
Geology is a closed system.
So geologists could simply
extrapolate things seen today
back a few billion years and
make up any story they fancied.
Biology is a closed system.
Each organism is self-contained.
Brain circuitry will
explain consciousness.
Sheldrake and others
show this is invalid.
The closed mechanical
model is wrong!
Einstein's inertial frames
are closed systems.
They have lost all
external references.
You gotta ask, the speed
of light, you know,
inertial reference frame
with respect to what?
Some arbitrary observer.
So modern science is
empty of real meaning.
Left hemisphere dominance
is the safeway.
A way that minimizes risk and
provides a way forward that seemingly
is a more secure and logical
approach to decision making.
The Machine metaphor reduces
things to isolated bits
and loses sight of
the connected whole.
Stars are isolated objects,
galaxies are isolated objects,
we are isolated individuals.
It's chickens, picking
at seeds in the dirt.
Of course, when you're tied
up with this narrow view
you end up with a whole
of mirrors effect.
The more we get
trapped into this,
the more we undercut the things
that might have led us out of it
and we just get reflected back
into more of what we know,
about what we know, about what
we know, about what we know...
So the greatest problem becomes the
things we don't know we don't know.
More information, we
have it in spades
but we get less and
less able to use it,
to understand it, to be wise.
These are Iain
McGilchrist's words.
Instead we go searching in the
crap for signals we expect to see.
That's my words.
"There's a paradoxical
relationship",
Iain says, "as I know
as a psychiatrist,
between the knowledge of the parts
and wisdom about the whole.
It's the machine model that is
supposed to answer everything
but it doesn't."
In other words the
theory of everything.
This is a perfect example
of a hall of mirrors.
This is the large hadron
collider control room.
Experiments are done on computer
screens, it's virtual research.
In our computerized world the virtual
makes something seem more real.
As one scientist said,
sexy images sell!
We see that all the
time in the media.
The picture, however, has become
fragmented and surreal science fiction.
Mistakes no longer mean going
back to the drawing board,
mistakes now need
to be de-bugged.
It creates a classic hall of
mirrors reflecting a single model.
Signals buried in noise become
statistical discoveries and proof.
The computers are programmed to find, deep
in the noise, what they expect to see.
I think the,
the LIGO and the gravitational wave
experiment is a prime example.
Images on a screen become
real discoveries or proof,
the Higgs boson,
gravitational waves.
It illustrates group-think and
left hemisphere dominance,
a blindness to alternatives.
...Sorry...
But paradigm shifts come from
individuals using their mind,
not large teams using computers,
the ultimate black boxes.
They invent new forces and particles
to reclaim control of the model.
The quark, the gluon,
dark energy, dark matter.
So big science is failing.
There have been no fundamental
advances for a century.
It's accepted that the
basis of what we now...
what is now known is
more or less correct.
A Copernican revolution is totally
unthinkable within the current system.
There are not many
differences between
the modern academy and the universities
in the 16th and 17th century
which conformed to the church
and to Aristotle's text.
The symptoms?
Science is non-predictive.
There are continual surprises.
Counter arguments are
ignored or unpublished
and the history of science is sanitized
to give the impression of progress.
What's the remedy?
Evan Camp is a teacher, an
8th grade science teacher
who ran an Electric Universe
group after school.
He presented an outstanding
talk at EU 2013,
Exciting Students with
Unsettled Science.
It's available on the
Thunderbolts.info YouTube channel.
He said: "Every mile you go in the wrong
direction is really a two-mile error.
Unlearning is twice
as hard as learning."
In fact it's much harder than that because
at the end of the first mile you are lost.
Because what you have learned
inhibits new learning
and accelerates forgetting.
This requires an active
remedial process.
It requires a conceptual mediation
program as early as possible.
Such a program has been tested
by Dr. Harry Lyndon in south
Australia, with encouraging results.
He says, the primary goal of science
educators involves helping young people
to acquire scientific knowledge
with greater facility.
To achieve a deeper level of
understanding in their studies
and for these understandings
to be lasting.
It has been
established, however,
that a universal
problem in schooling
concerns the fact that science learning
is evidently difficult for most students.
A general conclusion that
even students who are
successful in examinations
are unable to retain and
apply scientific concepts.
When students move into high school,
many experience disappointment
because the science they are taught
is neither relevant nor engaging
and doesn't connect with their
interests and experiences.
When new information or
ideas disagree or conflict
with what the left
hemisphere already knows,
the left hemisphere inhibits
or denies the new information
and causes accelerated forgetting
of the new knowledge or skill.
It protects all prior knowledge.
Old learning disables
new learning.
According to Lyndon, it's
why old habits die hard.
Old Way/New Way Learning where the old
and the new are repeatedly contrasted
is a method developed by Dr.
Lyndon and a colleague
and it's an innovative
teaching method.
It's a system where the students
actively and repeatedly
contrast the old and the new until
the inhibition is overcome.
It forces the student to
think about thinking.
This is important for
what is to follow.
Because it will help those who
follow the Thunderbolts movement
to understand the
problems others face
when confronted with
a paradigm shift
of the magnitude of the
Electric Universe.
And also some areas of
your own personal denial.
So, cosmology must address the
infinitesimal as well as the infinite.
So let's go to the
heart of the matter.
Because, incredibly,
mass is undefined!
In every textbook
and encyclopedia
the amount of mass is confused
with the amount of matter.
Perhaps because they both
begin with the letter 'M'.
This means that no scientist
understands E=mc²
This confusion allows
particle physicists
to talk of creation and
annihilation of matter
which is impossible without
understanding what matter is.
It's not physics.
E = mc² is simply
telling us that
that mass is a measure of the
amount of energy held in matter.
Particles have no
mass, we're told.
And with this ignorance the
standard particle model says,
subatomic particles have no
intrinsic mass which is nonsense.
Are they saying protons and electrons
have no rest mass, no energy?
It seems so.
In the standard particle model
mass is provided externally
by a kind of cosmic trickle
of imaginary Higgs bosons.
The total cost of finding
something dubbed the Higgs boson
at the Large Hadron Collider ran over
13 billion dollars in July 2012,
at the running cost of a
billion dollars a year.
That makes it more than 17
billion years, billion dollars
wasted, chasing the green
of the Cheshire cat.
The LHC operates like smashing
countless jumbo jets in the mountains
and picking over the debris
to see how they fly.
But the whole is more than the
sum of the bits, we can see.
We are not dealing
with closed systems.
Even worse, it's like asking
one of Douglas Adams'
telephone hygienists to
do the investigation.
The investigators are
not properly trained.
Energy is undefined.
What you will find in textbooks are
examples of different forms of energy.
The Big Bang is supposed to have
originated from pure energy
which is nonsense when energy only makes
sense in relation to matter in motion,
with respect to
all other matter.
But matter hasn't been defined
in any physical sense
involving sensible
internal movement.
The quantum realm is weird.
It's admitted by leading physicists that
no one understands quantum mechanics.
It's incompatible with Einstein's postulate
of no instantaneous information transfer
and it seems to involve even
the experimenter's thoughts
in the outcome of
some experiments.
Once again, any experiment
is not a closed system
as physicists like to assume.
That is why the quantum
realm appears weird.
Light and the electric force are mysteriously
transferred through empty space.
We have all experienced the
force between two magnets.
What's happening in the
space between them?
The pioneers of electromagnetism
knew there has to be a medium
to transfer the electric force.
They called it the ether.
The ether has to be an electrically
polarizable medium that fills the universe.
In that way you can daisy-chain
the electric force directly.
It's a longitudinal force.
And applying the speed of light limit
to that makes no sense whatsoever
because light is a wave motion.
I think I've said before that's like the
difference between pulling on a rope
and feeling the tug at the
other end almost instantly,
and waving one end of the rope and waiting
for the wave to get to the other end.
Light is a slow process
in the universe.
So if we have this ether that fills
the universe, space is full.
There's no such thing
as a perfect vacuum.
Einstein knew there has to be an ether but
his postulates somehow did away with it.
He admitted that his theory
of relativity would fail
if the Earth's motion through
the ether were detected.
That's because his inertial frames of
reference would not be equivalent.
It would be like having one observer
experiencing a gentle breeze from the ether wind
while another might be
suffering a howling gale.
As it turns out, Dayton Miller repeated
the Michelson-Morley ether experiments
far more rigorously and
at different elevations.
He found an ether drift.
Sadly, left hemisphere training
denied and quickly forgot this fact.
So let's have a look at the
standard particle model.
An atom, once a promise of
fundamental simplicity,
is really a nucleus within a hazy
probabilistic fog of electrons.
The nucleus is some protons
and neutrons held together
by the mysterious short range
nuclear or strong force.
The particles in the
nucleus have a hidden,
unknown number of weird
undetectable bits inside.
These bits are appearing
and disappearing
in defiance of a principle of science
that miracles are forbidden.
Meanwhile, a recent report
from the Large Hadron Collider
suggests new findings that
don't fit this model.
Here's a snapshot of a proton
by Professor Matthew Strassler.
He writes: "...imagine all of the quarks
(up, down, and strange -- u, d, s),
antiquarks (u, d, s with a
bar on top), and gluons (g),
zipping around near
the speed of light,
banging into each other, and
appearing and disappearing."
So, a proton is said to be some
quarks held together by some gluons
which are themselves the quantized
manifestations of the strong force.
There is no mention of how a
force manifests as a particle.
It gets much worse.
A gluon is really one of
several colors of gluon.
But it also has the simultaneous
property of anti-color.
Gluons mediate the
interaction between quarks
but they also mediate the interaction
between themselves and quarks.
That's right, gluons
are the strong force
but they also experience
the strong force.
Happily for the physicists, quarks
are unobservable in principle
because they only exist
inside the nucleon.
It's very convenient..
This is simple?
You can forget elegance.
This is extreme, narrow, left
hemisphere focus on a model
with no basic definitions to make
sense of the words being used.
Andrew Pickering, the author
of "Constructing Quarks",
it is a sociological study
of particle physics
and it's interesting book, says:
"There's no obligation on anyone
to take account of what 20th
century science has to say.
To listen too closely to scientists may
be simply to stifle the imagination,"
that is the right hemisphere.
"Worldviews are cultural products, there
is no need to be intimidated by them."
We come to the Electric
Universe model of the atom.
The electrically neutral atom
is made of charged particles,
positive and negative
in equal numbers,
together with a number of neutral
particles called neutrons.
Stating the obvious.
All subatomic particles are real
with real locations in space,
it's not a probabilistic fog.
There is a polarizable ether which transmits
force and carries electromagnetic waves.
The universe is full of an electrically
neutral perfect fluid of neutral particles
which passes through atoms and celestial
bodies practically as if they weren't there.
Neutrinos fit this description.
So, the Electric Universe then defines
what it means by energy and mass.
Energy is matter in motion relative to
the matter in the rest of the universe.
It used to be said, in
relation to the fixed stars.
This is not a closed
system approach.
It is a unifying relational concept
first articulated by Ernst Mach.
So we define mass:
Mass is a measure of particle
distortion instead of acceleration
in response to the electric forces
from all other matter in the universe.
It's a bit like pushing a
balloon full of water.
It will tend to distort,
rather than move.
And it's the same with these orbital systems
of electrons and protons and so on.
Once again, this conforms
with Ernst Mach's principle.
Neutrons may not exist
in the nucleus.
If so, only two particles are necessary
to build all of the elements.
This idea came from Edwin Kaal
who I'm pleased to say is here
and will be presenting
in the breakout room.
And the problem for physicists
is how do you hold together
all of the positive
charges in the nucleus,
they should repel one
another very powerfully.
The repulsion of those
positive charged protons
should prevent it from
forming in the first place.
However, atomic nuclei seem to
require neutrons for stability.
That's because when a
radioactive atom nucleus decays
neutral particles are sometimes
observed to leave the nucleus
and exist for a few minutes
before further decaying into
an electron and a proton.
So it was assumed, such a neutral
particle pre-existed in the nucleus.
The "what if" question
wasn't asked.
That maybe that wasn't so.
This is an assumption that
still does not explain
how the positive nucleus
remains cohesive.
So a special short-range strong
nuclear force was invented.
The proliferation of
forces and particles.
Edwin Kaal suggested
a simpler solution.
If the electrons remain as
discrete particles in the nucleus,
they will tend to
arrange themselves
to, on average, seat equidistant
between the protons;
because the distance between
the protons is greater than
that between each proton and
a neighboring electron,
the attractive electric force
between the proton and electron,
sorry if it's too fast,
will be four times greater
than the repulsive force.
This simple hypothesis removes the need for
an extra strong force within the nucleus.
It's much simpler.
And then it seems that
neutrons are short-lived,
metastable resonance of a closely
bound proton and electron.
This is simple.
The Electric Universe simply proposes
structure within structure, repeated pattern.
To understand magnetism and gravity
we must go to the heart of matter
a similar approach to that
of Andre Marie Ampere,
Carl Friedrich Gauss, Wilhelm
Weber and Walther Ritz,
who considered the behavior of positive and
negative charged particles of different mass
with great success but were
ignored for political reasons.
Chiefly, they weren't
English, I think.
Here's a simple hypothesis.
The electron and
proton have stable
resonant orbital structures
of smaller charged particles.
In that case,
the positron, that is the antiparticles,
and anti proton are mirror particles.
They're not antiparticles,
they're mirrors.
There is no antimatter, no
creation or annihilation.
But this requires that
there be an ether
of composite neutral particles of
vanishingly small mass, the neutrinos.
Neutrinos must be quite complex
inside but totally collapsed
so that they can accept energy and
then become a particle and its mirror.
But there's nothing,
it is just assumed that when these
particles seem to disappear,
that they're annihilated,
the matter has disappeared.
That's not so.
So the ether must be nor matter
of vanishingly small mass
composed of all the sub particles needed
to split into an electron and a positron
for example, when subjected to the
appropriate energy, electromagnetic energy.
For stability,
and this is one of the
stumbling blocks, of course,
for particle physicists
to go this way,
is that the electric
force must act
between the tiny particles
within the atom instantly.
No speed of light delay.
The two stable particles --
the electron and the proton,
if we assume the neutron is
just a metastable particle,
form 254 stable nuclides
plus another 85 metastable,
that is radioactive nuclides,
for a total of 339.
So from this simple resonant systems
of structure within structure
we have all of the
materials we need to see,
to make what we see in
the world around us.
When those nuclei combine with the
requisite number of negative electrons
to form atoms and molecules, the
possibilities are boundless
in the living world.
What does this mean?
Only a single force is necessary, the
powerful instantaneous electric force.
The phenomenal strength of the
naked electric force can be
judged by the simple
illustration in the lower left.
This shows that if the charge; passing through
two 120 watt light bulbs in one second,
were to be transferred
equally to two metal plates,
the repulsive force between those
plates would equal 1 million tons.
So it's critical that the electric
force is a balanced force,
attractive or repulsive.
These two propositions are the epitome
of elegant simplicity balance.
The little diagram
there on the left,
extreme left at the top, shows the
attraction between positive and negative
and the repulsion
between like-particles.
There are two forms of the
electric force that we experience.
One is the electrostatic, we have
separated charge some distance apart,
and the electric dipole where the distance
between the two charges becomes so small
that the field is altered and
you get a different effect
called the dipole field.
So it just depends on the degree of
separation of a positive and negative charge.
It's a difference in scale.
On our scale we experience the dipole
field of atomic electric fields
and subatomic electric fields in
the form of magnetism and gravity.
They are dipole fields.
So, both forms of the electrostatic
and the dipole field
occur between atoms and is
responsible for chemistry.
The e-force operates between all of the
particles and sub particles within each atom.
In close proximity this can
result in distortion of the atoms
to form electric
dipoles themselves.
Which can result in the
attraction to form a molecule
or they may enter a new resonant dance
by sharing an electron as chemistry.
The dipole distorting action on electrons
and protons produces dipolar magnetism.
The diagram there is actually,
I made a mistake, the positive and negative
on the left and right should be reversed.
But this just shows
that if you...
just try this thing here...
if you have an electric field
operating on a particle here,
charged particle here,
and accelerating it
and on the opposite
side decelerating it,
the result will be an elliptical orbit
with the nucleus at one of the focuses.
And the result of this is that
you get a transverse dipole
and that transverse dipole is
shown there as the magnetic force
because if you have two
current-carrying wires,
where the electric field in the wire is
causing this distortion in electrons,
then the dipoles are aligned
so they tend to attract
and we know that current
flowing down two wires
in the same direction attract,
in the opposite way they repel.
OK, so. And the other
thing is that,
I mentioned the ultra-week
dipolar gravity.
And this is the diagram, what
happens to an atom in that case.
The gravitational field
cannot be shielded from,
so the gravitational force
operates on the heavy nucleus
so that it falls towards one
of the focuses of the ellipse.
This time it's oriented radially
towards the surface of the body.
But the interesting thing
about that is that
once you've said that,
this means that
the body like the Earth and the
Moon, which are shown here,
the negative poles on both
bodies are facing outwards
which means they're
repelling one another.
So it means that the, it's long-range
repulsive, short-range attractive.
We, on the surface of the earth, are
like iron filings. We don't care
which magnet, we go to adjust,
the nearest one will do.
The gravitational mass of the distant
galaxies has a fundamental influence
over the motion of the
bodies in the solar system
and this is actually shown by precession
of the perihelion of the planets
which is tied to the distant stars and
not to the Sun or general relativity.
Because general relativity doesn't
have a reference frame like that.
Short-term changes in the
Earth's magnetic field
that occur over periods
of just years or decades
have now been shown in new
research to have a very close
relationship with
changes in gravity.
The two are very
similar, similar forces.
There is no gravitational
collapse in space,
no black hole
swallowing everything.
It is the electromagnetic force alone
that coalesces matter in deep space.
So the assumption that gravity was the controlling
force on the large-scale is incorrect.
There's no need for a Big Bang to
separate everything initially,
gravity is a balanced force like
magnetism and cannot form neutron stars
or other fanciful super-condensed
celestial objects.
A planet's gravity is established at its
birth by powerful electromagnetic forces.
Once the body is formed and the
charge on the surface is established,
the gravitational field is set
by both the surface charge
and the initial coalescence
by electromagnetic forces.
So the outcome of
all that is that
all matter in the local universe is
connected by the electric force instantly.
That's Mach's principle.
The origin of mass and
quantum spooky connection.
Because this force is instantaneous, this
so called, entanglement and non-locality
suddenly has a
simple explanation.
And energy is a measure of motion with respect
to the matter in the rest of the universe.
Mass is a measure of the energy stored
in the orbital motion inside a particle.
And simultaneity means there is a universal
time and three-dimensional space.
We return to the sanity and
simplicity of classical physics.
These matter resonances
are interesting too
because having an
orbital structure
allows resonant instantaneous
connections and complex interactions
which explains weird
quantum behavior.
The important thing is that
the electron and proton
have an orbital charge
structure like atoms
which explains their internal
energy and their magnetic moment.
And distortion in an electric field appears as
an increase in mass rather than acceleration.
Quantum tunneling
In transistors electrons face a barrier
like the illustration in the diagram.
It's like having to carry
a weight over a hill
but in a weird quantum
phenomenon called tunneling
the electron passes through that
barrier as if there's a tunnel.
The Electric Universe model
of the electron and proton,
having an orbital structure of
oppositely charged particles,
allows us to see that the hill or
the repulsive electrical force
between similar charges can instantly
disappear or become a downhill race.
The reason is that the force
between two similar particles
can become attractive
instead of repulsive
if you get the particles together
at just the right moment.
In chemistry this resonance is achieved
by the use of heavy metal catalyst
which has numerous internal
subatomic resonances.
The same catalytic process is available,
in my opinion, for nuclear fusion.
So called warm fusion is
possible by nuclear chemistry,
catalyzing the nuclei to
attract instead of repel.
So catalytic chemistry is
possible, in my opinion,
in the photospheric
plasma of all bright stars
where the nuclei are
separated from the electrons
and can actually come close
together in the presence
of the heavy elements
we see in the spectrum.
And you've gotta ask the question then,
is this the path to the future power?
Like the Sun.
But only "unlike the sun" that
is believed by present science.
In this way all-stars generate the
heavy elements in their photospheres
where we detect them
in their spectra.
Rare exploding super novae are the most
ineffectual production means imaginable.
Because having produced it you
then disperse it into deep space.
There's also an unsuspected resonant
means of connection in living systems.
The morphic field of Rupert
Sheldrake, the mind-body connection,
consciousness, subtle energies.
The Electric Universe model
explains biological transmutations
at body temperature as demonstrated by Dr.
Louis Kervran.
His is a clear demonstration
of this simple process.
Is light a wave or a particle?
If so, what's waving?
Einstein did away with
a medium to waive.
Or is light a
particle, a photon?
It can't be both, a
wave and a particle.
You'll notice they merely mouthed a
term that it's particle-like, they say.
It's a meaningless
use of language.
If so, according to Einstein, to travel at
the speed of light it must have zero mass.
But a particle of zero
mass has no energy.
You can't multiply 0 x infinity
and get a real number.
And if it's got 0 mass it
can't be affected by gravity
so there can be no
gravitational lensing.
Lensing occurs as a simple atmospheric
diffraction effect in the ether.
It's like an atmosphere
around the body.
Evidence from stars at the galactic
center show no gravitational lensing
as expected from
standard theory.
Clearly, we depend on light
to observe the universe
but we don't understand light.
Photons don't exist.
Light is a transverse electrical
disturbance in the ether.
And the ether must be a dielectric medium
to transfer an electrical disturbance.
The wave carries energy
through the medium..
..catch up here..
..and the energy is absorbed by the first
atom that is in instantaneous resonance
with the sending atom.
It gives the appearance
that a photon has traveled between
the sender and the receiver.
It's appearance only.
Talking about light brings
us to cosmological redshift.
Hubble found, the fainter and smaller a galaxy
appeared -- the higher was its redshift.
In the diagram you can see the
spectral lines of hydrogen move
progressively to the red
end of the spectrum
as the distance is
thought to increase.
The redshift was simply assumed to
be due to velocity away from us
by analogy with the
Doppler shift of sound.
Hubble's law is considered the
first observational basis
for the expansion
of the universe.
But ironically, Hubble thought
it the least likely explanation.
He felt, it more likely
indicated some new physics.
So it was Hubble's professional
astronomer assistant,
Halton C. Arp, who later
proved this to be so.
If the redshift is not
simply a Doppler effect,
Hubble wrote, the region observed
appears as a small homogeneous
but insignificant portion of the universe
extended indefinitely both in space and time.
Recently and surprisingly more distant
galaxies seem to be accelerating away from us.
This discovery won the Nobel
Prize and gave rise to the need
for huge amounts of mysterious dark
energy to power the acceleration.
I read about that discovery
on October the sixth 2011.
The discovery of the acceleration
of the expanding universe
is an interpretation based on total
ignorance of the real nature of stars
and the standard candle which
was used as the measurement
to determine the distance away.
So it's gratifying to find support once
more in a report this month titled:
"Could a new type of supernova
eliminate dark energy?"
It has been found that the near-UV
light from the most distant supernovae
is brighter than
the closer ones.
In other words, there's something going
on at the atomic and subatomic level.
Of course, this is
unexpected and unexplained.
The diagram on the left shows the
difference between the Big Bang universe
and the Plasma Universe.
It's easy to see which
one is simpler.
Intrinsic redshift and Dr.
Halton Arp
(Hubble's assistant who was
dubbed the modern Galileo).
He found redshifts, quasars, physically
connected to and in front of,
high redshift quasars rather,
physically connected to
and in front of low
redshift active galaxies.
This observation of a quasar between
the galaxies NGC 73 19 and the Earth
is impossible if the quasars are over
90 times farther away than the galaxy.
So, Hubble was right.
Something is wrong with physics.
Arp showed the redshift happened
in small jumps or quanta
which indicates a
subatomic effect.
But subatomic, these
quantum effects
are supposed to only occur
at the subatomic level,
here we've got occurring
on the galactic.
This requires, once again,
the electric force to be operating at
ultra-high speed, instantaneously.
So, quasars are born at high
speed and with low redshift.
This is Arp's diagram, you see
the parent galaxy in the center.
This is one here.
And the high redshift quasars, and the
redshift decreases as they move away.
Initially their
velocity is very high,
they are faint,
highly red-shifted
and traveling at the fair
fraction of the speed of light.
Over time they gain in mass.
This is interesting.
That means that energy is being
supplied to the matter in the quasar,
the mass is increasing.
So that eventually they
can actually become
a turnaround here and
become a companion galaxy.
This is an example of another
path that they can take
where you end up with another
Bi Lac objects as it's called,
producing multiple
galaxies here.
So there is a genealogy,
if you like, of galaxies.
The idea that the
Andromeda galaxy
is going to crash into our galaxy
in the future, is rubbish.
It's based on the idea that
Andromeda's blue shift,
with respect to us, means
that it's approaching us.
No, just means that
it's older than us.
So the Electric
Universe explains this.
Quasars are born at high
speed and with low mass.
They escape the forces of the
electromagnetic galactic nucleus,
that's the parent
galaxy, as neutrons.
And because the neutrons
have no charge,
they can escape the intense
electromagnetic forces
that hold that plasmoid in
the center of the galaxy.
They have enough time
to get away from the,
those powerful forces and then they
decompose into electrons and protons
which are the forerunners
of hydrogen.
So, as the electrical energy pours into
the quasar its mass and brightness
increases and it slows down
to become a companion galaxy.
So this was an explanation, the only
explanation for Halton Arp's observations.
Quasars are not the brightest and
most distant objects in the universe.
They are among the youngest
and closest, so they..
the objects in the mirror really
are closer than they appear.
The visible universe is smaller
than we have been told.
So the universe, the real
universe, is in balance.
It is not expanding.
This is important for
understanding of gravity.
Gravity cannot be simply
an attractive force.
The universe is of
unknown age and extent,
the origin of the
universe is unknown,
there is a universal now and space
has three physical dimensions.
This brings everything back down
to, as Tom was pointing out,
conditions as we
experience it on Earth.
Dark Matter Galaxies
Galaxies are treated as
isolated objects in space
produced somehow by attractive
gravity in an expanding universe.
Their rotation and structure
remains a mystery.
They're made of eighty percent
invisible dark matter.
Tom got a good introduction to
that story about dark matter.
Dark matter has been described as
an invisible elephant in the room.
You know it's there by the dent
it makes in the floorboards.
Dark matter is only inferred theoretically
by using our experience of gravity on earth
and projecting it onto the
rest of the universe.
Once again it's the
geocentric problem.
We look at the gravity on earth and
then we just extrapolate outwards.
Because that's all
mathematicians can do.
It needs an impossible gravitational
black hole in the center,
black holes exist theoretically in
asymptotically flat space in an empty universe.
You cannot superimpose any other matter
in such a hypothetical universe.
Black holes don't exist!
Yet some sport long thin high-velocity
jets over intergalactic distances.
There's no satisfactory theoretical
explanation for these jets.
This is the standard, taking
the standard approach.
Electric Galaxies
On the other hand,
Plasma Cosmology shows
experimentally and observationally
that galaxies are governed
by electromagnetic forces.
Tony Peratt said that
they introduced gravity
into their super computer runs and
it made no difference whatsoever.
Spirals rotate as
simple Faraday motors,
that's why that curve is flat.
It's as if you've got a plate and
you're just spinning the plate.
Stars are born in and trace
the spiral power lines.
Where there is a higher
density of gas and dust,
it's typical of an electrical
discharge, where the density of the
material becomes greater, the
discharge becomes more filamentary.
Stars form along those
pinched current filaments.
There are no black holes.
It's a compact high-energy
plasmoid and this
comes down to peer-reviewed
Plasma Cosmology.
Their apparent mass is due to the
relationship between mass and energy.
If e = mc², if you got a high concentration
of energy in that tiny plasmoid,
it will exhibit a
considerable mass.
It's certainly not a black hole.
The other thing is that galaxies
lineup axially showing the electrical
connectedness because they're threaded
like Catherine wheels on a wire.
And that wire is one of these intergalactic
Birkeland current filaments.
So let's look at stars.
We've done galaxies,
let's look at stars.
Eddington, Arthur Eddington
had the temerity to say,
"it should not be too difficult to
understand something as simple as a star".
This is typical left hemisphere.
His quote is typical.
Isolate, simplify and
ignore a global view
because if you look at coronas, sunspots,
flares, magnetic cycles etc.
his gas model doesn't
predict any of them.
And the alternatives
are not explored.
He dismisses electrical
aspects in a few paragraphs.
The failure of this approach is
shown by continual complications
with each new discovery.
It's treated as an isolated
gravitating ball of gas.
Conventionally, it's a body
that satisfies 3 conditions.
It's made of hydrogen
plus a few impurities,
having core of the lightest element
is the most fanciful assumption.
It's needed to allow the thermonuclear
energy model to be viable.
That also requires a hypothetical
extreme conditions in the core.
It's only required by the thermonuclear
theory and is completely untestable.
It also has,
I mean that's unverifiable,
and also the sequence of nuclear
reactions that take place in the core
cannot be verified.
They're very complex and requires quantum
tunneling which I referred to earlier,
and what's more, there's a more complex
different story for different stars.
It's certainly not simple.
It's an explosive model
because one of the reactions
is sensitive to the temperature
to the fifth power.
It also needs an
unknown radiation zone
to break down the x-rays
from the nuclear core.
There's no body known
that has a radiation
or the energy transferred through
the body, through a radiation zone.
So this is hypothetical.
And also from the point of view
of life on Earth and so on
it has a restrictive and variable
'Goldilocks zones' distance from the star.
It's not the best place to
nurture life in the universe.
Impossible Stars
Formation by gravitational
accretion doesn't work.
It's never been explained
satisfactorily.
It has hydrogen, the lightest
element in the core,
the model doesn't predict the
observed features of behavior,
has different models for white
dwarfs, neutron stars, etc
and the life story of stars is
super complicated and untestable.
And some stars do strange things,
they switch from one place to another
without going through
the transition stages.
Renowned scientists like Eddington
who made grave mistakes
about the Sun and Einstein's
general relativity,
he went out explicitly to prove Einstein
correct -- not to test his theory,
continue to haunt us today.
It gives the light to the belief
that science is self-correcting.
It is, oh sorry, it is not, given the
way in which science is done today.
As Eddington said, if there's no
other way out we may have to suppose
that bright line spectra in the star
are produced by electric discharges.
The clues were there but "what
if" was not followed through.
Herschel reveals a
ribbon of future stars.
This was reported on March
the 30th this year.
So this is a very
recent picture.
Stars and planets are formed by
powerful electromagnetic forces
like pearls on a cosmic string.
This is a quote from
an earlier report.
Gravity can be ignored.
In Plasma Cosmology there's
no gravitational accretion.
There's no way you can form a
string like that using gravity.
Gravity is a central force and
material tends to come in to a center.
It doesn't form a string.
But this recent report says,
this is important,
stars are shot out of the filaments
by a slingshot mechanism.
And there's a diagram here which
shows the filaments moving around
like those in the plasma
ball, they snake about.
The stars having been formed in
this filament are left behind
as the filament moves on
and these stars are shot out.
And it's interesting because plasma..
Tony Peratt described to us
once the effects seen in high
energy discharge experiments
as these plasmoids
scattered like buckshot.
Now it's not only stars
that are formed here,
it's all solid bodies
including planets.
And they may be captured by the
stars to form the weird assortment,
over three-and-a-half
thousand of them, so far,
of exo-planetary systems
that have been observed.
New stars also may fission to produce
hot Jupiters in very close orbits
and achieve electrical stability with
their changing electrical environment.
The movement of the filaments, as I
said, is like those in the plasma ball.
Heavy elements convect
into a cool core.
This is interesting because these,
those blue filaments you saw before
are the coldest part of the cloud and
this is where the stars are forming.
The traditional view is that the stars
had to form by gravitational collapse
and not lose any of the
heat of the collapse,
otherwise they couldn't
start their nuclear fires.
This doesn't require
any of that.
It was one of the
surprises for theorists.
Is that the,
the blue filament I mentioned is
the coldest part of the cloud
and contains eight hundred
times as much mass as the Sun.
This is not a surprise
for plasma cosmologists.
So, all stars have a
cool planetary core.
Stars and many planets
are born together
along the same electrical
umbilical cord.
Other planets and moons are born later
in electrical fissioning events
and capture events.
Hydrogen and helium tend to
form the outermost atmosphere.
This is a diagram showing the
actual form of the filaments.
You'll notice the pattern there.
This is showing an experimental pattern
of a discharge on an insulating plate.
And this shows a Martian
electrical scar.
You can see the similarities.
As the cosmic
lightning bolt fades,
stars and planets are captured
into planetary systems.
So, electric stars,
they remain a gaseous
electric discharge phenomena
like spherical searchlights,
following their birth.
In fact some of the
characteristics of the
photospheres are like
that of a searchlight.
All bright stars catalytically
produce heavy elements
in the photospheric
plasma discharges.
Red stars have gigantic
anode sheaths.
Sorry, got the right
picture there.
Plasma discharges adjust to their
environment by moving electrical barriers
called plasma sheaths or
misleadingly, magnetospheres,
because they trap the
magnetic fields inside.
If Jupiter's plasma
sheath would lit up
it would appear the size of the full
Moon in the sky, at opposition.
And its Galilean moons would be
orbiting comfortably inside it.
So red dwarfs are not dwarfs
and their bloated glowing anode sheaths
are the cosmic wombs for life.
Because inside that
radiant red sphere
all satellites receive uniform heat
and light over their entire surfaces.
It doesn't matter how they're moving
or rotating, that will be the case.
Of course this poses a
problem for the SETI project
because radio waves cannot penetrate
the glowing plasma sheath.
So if these are the
wombs of life,
we don't have any way of radio
communication with them.
But of course, gravity
can pass through.
White dwarfs are not dwarfs at all, they're
just stars with no bright photosphere.
And a faint white
coronal discharge.
These are some of the planetary
systems that have been discovered.
You can see that it's
quite a shambles.
So as I said before, at the galactic
scale electromagnetic forces
form these gigantic Birkeland
currents and they dominate.
At the planetary scale, inside the
star's protective plasma sheath,
gravity dominates.
So you have to choose the
region you're talking about
when you talk, when you try to apply
your model to stars, galaxies and so on.
In fact, the inside the
star's protective sheath,
with gravity dominating
and it dominates because it
cannot be electrically shielded
so the impact from all of the
other stars in the universe
is acting like a
pressure in on the,
the planets moving
around the Sun.
In fact this repulsive force
from the rest of the universe
can reverse the Earth's motion
about the Sun in 6 months.
That is 6 sextillion tons
by 140,000 miles an hour.
So it gives you an
idea of the impact.
Then the Thunderbolts of the
Gods operate to modify masses..
oh, sorry..
In planetary systems the electric force comes
into play only when plasma sheaths collide
because then the electrical
insulation breaks down.
And the electric current flows
between the two bodies.
Then the Thunderbolts of the Gods operate
to modify masses and change orbits
and to quickly
reestablish order.
This is one of the problems
that Velikovsky faced,
how do you explain events,
within the memory of mankind,
of chaos in the solar system and
it looks like clockwork today.
This is the answer, you have to
apply the electric model of gravity
to be able to do this.
So Velikovsky was right.
Electricity and magnetism
are involved in the
celestial mechanism.
Changing the surface
charge on a planet
Change modifies the strength of
the internal electric dipole
which is responsible for the
planet's mass and gravity.
And the changes to both bodies, which
I've shown in previous YouTube talks,
tends to move the two bodies
apart, which is very convenient..
This overcomes the objections
of the Harvard book burners
to Velikovsky's
Worlds in Collision.
However, it doesn't detract from the
title to say that Worlds didn't collide.
It was an electrical
clash of the titans.
There's Velikovsky
with his great book.
So what we have now in science
is a mythical journey.
It is a rehash of
a creation myth.
The Earth was born and for four-and-a-half
billion has remained roughly where it is now.
Long ago the Earth had a few
massive impacts to birth the Moon
and almost wipe out life
on Earth at intervals.
Ironically, planetary collisions
have been found essential
66 years after Velikovsk's book
Worlds in Collision was burned.
Thousands of exo-planetary
systems don't fit the story.
There are stars that shouldn't exist, hot
Jupiters that orbit the star in hours or days,
backward orbits
and polar orbits.
Life on earth remains
unexplained.
The odds against random events producing
life are practically infinite.
The rest of the story is once-upon-a-time,
fragmented, boring and non-predictive.
We are an isolated and
improbable accident.
That's why we have difficulty imagining
life elsewhere in the universe.
Alan Alda complains, everybody
is ignorant about science.
Alda was 11 years a host of
Scientific American Frontiers on PBS
and he helped inspire the creation of
the Center for Communicating Science
at Stony Brook in 2009.
Is it any wonder?
When this is the face
of science today.
There is no real
meaning or morality
in modern mechanistic science to
engage students or the public.
Everyone thinks it
is all mathematics.
It saddens me to see so much talent
wasted in the pursuit of myth,
hunting for dark matter.
Their heads have
been filled with it.
Our REAL journey.
You're looking for the nearest
exoplanet -- we're standing on it.
Pay attention to the oldest
stories of the celestial gods
who created the skies
and land we see today.
Yorro Yorro is a
research book about the
Kimberley region, Aborigines
in western Australia.
And they, some of their
stories are so close to
the reconstruction of the
Saturnian polar configuration
that it's almost scary.
And these are the words from the elders and
they were very precise in their words.
It says, in the beginning
people saw before the Ice Age,
that the Moon, Sun and some of
the stars had been on Earth.
In other words, they
were very close.
One song told about a flood,
long before the last,
that was brought on by
a star with trails.
The symbols that testify to these
events are still in the Kimberley.
The Wandjina creator-figure,
which is the one you can see on
the front of the book there,
that features are explained.
All rings around the head
represent clouds and lightning.
The big spirit Wandjina
have large eyes.
This is the eye-god motive that David
Talbott has explained at length.
They never have a mouth nor ears
and the line between the eyes
indicates where the power flows
down and it's not a nose.
And it has, it looks
like a hollow tube,
which, in the plasma column scenario of
the Saturnian story, is accurate.
Wallanganda, the
Creator of Wandjina,
did not create with his hands, only
through his voice, with power.
It reminds me of, "in the
beginning was the Word".
Andy Hall has recently explained that the
overpressure from supersonic shock-waves,
that is from the electrical blast
that striked the surface of the body,
are powerful enough
to form mountains.
Rock flows until the overpressure drops
whereupon it solidifies instantly
but retains an imprint
of the shock-wave.
Those shock-waves would have
produced harmonics and overtones,
a global sound like a
symphony of giant trumpets.
There's many traditions about the
creation being associated with sound.
This little book I bought in Central
Australia on a visit to Uluru,
that great red rock which looks
just like an asteroid has landed.
And it also tells a story by
these people in the Kimberleys
but is illustrated by children
and it's very quaint.
Yet the story is by David
More Jolly, who's the elder,
It tells of two suns in the sky
who lived in hollow
logs, plasma columns.
There is a period of
intense heat from them.
Then one sun is attacked with
a spear, the thunderbolt,
and is bitten by a
snake, cometary Venus,
who lives in the sky.
The little sun gets snagged in
the fog of a celestial tree
which is the Axis Mundi thing.
The Tree of Life,
the Celestial Tree.
So this is an extension of the forensic
technique that Velikovsky introduced.
He never referred to the
Australian Aborigines
but some of their memories
are, seem to be so accurate
that they are a better source
than some of the more,
so-called, advanced
cultural reports.
All of these story elements
makes sense to mytho-historians
and to the leading plasma cosmologist and
colleague of Hannes Alfvén -- Tony Peratt.
Accept the best evidence
regardless of its fit
with modern consensus science
and man-made theoretical laws.
It is better to adopt the
forensic science approach
to the evidence for past
events that cannot be repeated
than to rely on theoretical science
which is based on sets of beliefs
and a geocentric perspective.
Use that evidence to develop
a more holistic science
that brings a phenomenal
real journey to light.
To be real and useful,
science must be holistic.
The Electric Universe
is a holistic science
that applies seamlessly from the
galactic to the earthly to the biosphere
and on down to
subatomic particles.
Humanity's dramatic experience of the
electrical nature of celestial mechanics
would make an awe inspiring
and frightening IMAX movie
that would make science fiction
seem a pale shadow in comparison.
But in my opinion, once understood,
there will be no irrational urge
to revisit doomsday upon
each other and the earth
under the unrecognized banners of the
prehistoric warring planetary gods.
Planets bear the scars of their electrical
birth and past encounters on their faces.
Apollo astronauts commented on the
fresh appearance of lunar craters,
the event that caused the great
gush across the face of Mars
appears in stories
from ancient cultures.
These are just yesterday
in geological time.
I recommend you to see episode
II Symbols of an Alien Sky,
The Lightning Scarred
Planet Mars.
We may understand our history and place in
the electric universe for the this time.
This is singularly important
for our sense of well-being.
It gives dramatic new
meaning to our lives
in a sense of responsibility
for our jewel of a planet.
Without this sense we probably
have no future on Earth.
Also in the event,
myth becomes science.
There was a unique myth-making
period and all surviving cultures
required their stories to be
faithfully transmitted for millennia,
such was their importance.
We look at these enigmatic rock art
figures from the remote Kimberley region
in Western Australia and see only their
strange, haunting and artistic beauty.
And it was rather ironic
that just a week or so ago,
and David Novak was there
to see it too I think,
they had the vivid
festival in Sydney
where they project images
onto public buildings
and of course the Opera House's the
the most public building in Sydney
and this was a presentation
of Wandjina figures.
I mean they are haunting and
I think they probably evoke
some kind of a
subconscious connection
but how much more would they mean if
people really understood their origin.
We need to give more credit
to the indigenous people.
Now Even Camp said that
one of the unique aspects of the Electric
Universe theory is that it's good storytelling.
It answers all three questions,
what if..
What if the sky was
different in the past?
What if Saturn was
worshipped as the Sun?
What if there were electrical
discharges between planets?
What if there were electric
Today, we have
meteorites from Mars.
What if Lichtenberg figures explain
the scars on Mars and Earth?
Show students pictures of
cratering on different bodies
and asks students to explain
them from two points of view.
The Standard Model needs
different explanations for each.
The Electric Universe, on the other hand,
has a single explanation for them all.
Then, there is the story
of the dissidents.
If only Birkeland
hadn't been ignored.
Hannes Alfvén had
been listened to.
Halton Arp's research
hadn't been dismissed.
A pixar rule for storytelling
number 16: what are the stakes?
Give us reasons to
support the character.
What happens if
they don't succeed?
Stack the odds against them!
What of the future
if this goes on?
We continue wasting money and careers
looking for things that don't exist.
We cripple students by not
training them to think.
We may have no future
on this planet.
As Evan Camp says,
"The power of eliciting engagement is to get
people to come to their own conclusions."
Thinking is going to be
the future of education.
So, our Electric Universe Future.
Mahatma Gandhi said,
"There is a force in the universe which,
if we permit it, will flow through us
and produce miraculous results."
The Electric Universe
is an inspiring story
that motivates students both
conceptually and artistically,
and that is what's needed for left and
right brain hemisphere development.
Education, classical science and the
arts, left and right hemispheres
Many principles of the Electric
Universe were foreseen
by scholars in the past--
Newton, Faraday, etc.
A release from existential fear.
Velikovsky's The Bonds of
the Past, a documentary.
There is a collective inability to face the
truth that prehistoric mankind faced doomsday.
For millennia, sciences
preached stability and order
but as amnesiacs we
have a compulsion
to instinctively repeat the
catastrophes of the past
destroying each other and the earth
from the sky with apocalyptic weapons,
like the planetary gods of old.
This was one of Velikovsky's
greatest fears.
But we have, on the other hand, the
possibility of an unparalleled renaissance
with the Electric Universe, bringing
everything together seamlessly.
Understanding ourselves
and our past,
can heal the wounds and provide a more
universal sense of connection and purpose.
Understand the electric
force of nature.
Power "like the Sun."
And Gravity.
Quantum Interactions.
All three rely on understanding
matter interactions
by the instantaneous
electric force.
Understanding living organisms, the
mind-body connection and beyond.
Also understanding the dangers of genetically-
modified organisms and manufactured food.
There's no thought
given to the effects,
the unintended consequences
of fiddling with these things
when our basic knowledge
is so lacking.
And the idea in an Electric Universe is to
live in tune with the Earth and each other.
Resonant Connection
On the most general level,
the Electric Universe is
a new paradigm of universal
resonant connection.
The arbitrary inertial frames
of reference of physics
are not equivalent when everything
is connected in real time.
How and where you are makes a
difference to your energy state.
For example, the GPS system is
supposed to prove relativity theory.
It doesn't.
The atoms in orbiting clocks have a different
energy from identical clocks on Earth
so engineers simply count a different
number of ticks to compensate.
Time is universal,
unchanging and unchangeable.
Clocks are not.
Think of the relationships between all things
connected by the universe electric force
and consider that the electric force
must act instantly otherwise no
information transfer is possible
between resonant tune systems.
Spacecraft using slow speed
of light transmissions,
require constant retuning
of receivers on Earth
to compensate for their motion.
Obviously living systems
could not function
if moving parts of the body
lost contact with the brain.
Acknowledging this simple fact will explain
quantum weirdness and open up science,
particularly biology, to amazing
possibilities that are presently forbidden.
And understanding gravity and magnetism
as balancing electric forces
will change forever our view of the
heavens and the earth under our feet.
As the morphic resonance experiments of the
biologist Rupert Sheldrake have shown,
the things that are learned by one organism are
immediately available to others like them,
anywhere on earth.
The universe learns.
Resonance between molecular tuning forks
allows instant information transfer,
the mind-body
connection and beyond.
Life is structured water.
This was said to me
by Gerald Pollack.
The experiments, or his
experiments, show that structure of
electrically polarized water molecules
gives rise to water's amazing properties.
It allows information to be stored and
transferred within a living cell.
The memory mechanism
of homeopathy.
It suggests that the electrically
polarizable ether particles may also
participate in information
storage as well as transmission.
The Electric Universe resonant
electrical model of matter
and the all-pervasive
neutrino ether,
suggests that resonance and
structure within structure
can store unlimited information
and transfer it instantly.
There is more to life
than meets the eye.
We've always known
that instinctively.
The Electric Universe suggests that
the information needed for life,
forget the gene -- that's just
the factory floor, is universal.
So life can take hold wherever
conditions arise that allow it.
We see evidence for that
in the great changes
immediately following catastrophic
mass extinctions on earth.
We see it in organisms living in
anoxic conditions over volcanic vents,
on the ocean floor and at
great depths in rocks.
Just as gravity
cannot be shielded,
since all matter participates
in force transfer,
so it is with this universal
information bank.
There are no islands in space.
We are Earthlings in the complete
resonant connection sense
in a meaningful
Electrical Universe.
The fact that we exist suggests
the purposeful universe.
Our lives have purpose.
We don't manifest
as a blank slate.
So, children should be observed and
supported in their individual passions,
not suppressed and molded
to have desires for them.
We are born with a purpose but many
need help to discover that purpose.
In answering the question:
Why are we so unhappy,
Iain McGilchrist says: "True happiness
is based on connections with others
and a sense of purpose
beyond the immediate."
True happiness is one
aim of this conference.
The new panorama of an amazing shared
history and kinship must change the world.
In the search for meaning, the
Electric Universe paradigm can,
as Iain McGilchrist
says, change the world.
Elegance, harmony and
simplicity of concepts
are the Electric Universe
guiding principles.
Thank you.